# SPI Driver Asynchronous - Self Loopback Multi Client

This example demonstrates how to use the SPI driver in asynchronous mode to achieve<br /> self-loop back between multiple clients.

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 Driver and System Service Application Examples for SAMA5D2 Family](GUID-89743DCD-F235-4D2D-AE19-B9D1B98911AD.md)

## Description

-   This example writes and reads back the same data \(self loop back\) for two different clients connected over the same SPI bus by using the multi client feature of the driver.
-   It uses the request \(write and read request\) queuing feature of the asynchronous driver and does not waste CPU bandwidth in waiting for previous request completion.
-   The example also demonstrates how to setup two different client transfers at different baud rates.
-   This example performs self loop back only once after a power on reset.
-   Success is indicated when a successful self loop back is reported by both the clients.
-   After the loop back test is complete, the application remains in the idle state.

## Downloading and Building the Application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_sam_a5d2) and then<br /> click Clone button to clone this repository or download as zip file. This content<br /> can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is<br /> **apps/driver/spi/async/spi\_self\_loopback\_multi\_client/firmware**.

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its<br /> IDE.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|MPLABX project for [SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

## Setting Up AT91Bootstrap loader

To load the application binary onto the target device, we need to use at91bootstrap<br /> loader. Refer to the [at91bootstrap loader documentation](GUID-EC647FFE-720B-413C-81C5-6ACA67E7CC7B.md) for details on how to<br /> configure, build and run bootstrap loader project and use it to bootstrap the<br /> application binaries.

## Setting Up the Hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|sam\_a5d2\_curiosity.X|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|

### Setting Up SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board

-   Use jumper wire to Connect **Pin 6 of MikroBus1 \(J19\) header** to **Pin 5 of MikroBus1 \(J19\) header**
    -   SPI1 MOSI signal is mapped to PC02 that is routed to **Pin 6 of MikroBus1 \(J19\) header**
    -   SPI1 MISO signal is mapped to PC03 that is routed to **Pin 5 of MikroBus1 \(J19\) header**
-   Connect the USB\_A port on board to the computer using a USB-C type cable.

## Running the Application

1.  Build and program the application using its IDE
2.  LED is turned ON on Success

Refer to the following table for LED name:

|Board|LED Name|
|-----|--------|
|[SAMA5D29 Curiosity Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/EV07R15A)|RGB\_LED \(Green\)|

